# Meta tags

When migrating to Nuxt 3, you will have to update how you manage your meta tags. Meta tags include page title, extra CSS, scripts, SEO data, etc. Nuxt 3 provides two different ways to manage your meta tags. First is through the `useMeta()` [composable](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/docs/usage/meta-tags#usemeta-composable). The second way is through [global meta components](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/docs/usage/meta-tags#meta-components) provided by Nuxt.

## useMeta() Composable

Similar to the `head()` method in Nuxt 2, the `useMeta()` composable is a function provided by Nuxt 3 to manage meta data. The composable allows you to set the properties with the corresponding keys:

- title
- base
- script
- style
- meta
- link
- htmlAttrs
- bodyAttrs

To migrate your Nuxt 2 app to Nuxt 3, you will have to swap out your head method with the `useMeta()` composable:

::code-group

```vue [Nuxt 2]
head(){
  return {
    title: 'Page Title',
    meta: [
      {
        hid: 'description',
        name: 'description',
        content: 'Your App Description'
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

```vue [Nuxt 3]
<script setup>
  useMeta({
    title: 'Page Title',
    meta: [
      {
        name: 'description',
        content: 'Your App Description'
      }
    ]
  })
</script>
```

::code-group

## Reusable Components

Nuxt 3 also provides a variety of re-usable components that you can use to accomplish the same task. While these components look similar to HTML tags, they are provided by Nuxt and have similar functionality.

::code-group

```vue [Nuxt 2]
head(){
  return {
    title: 'Page Title',
    meta: [
      {
        hid: 'description',
        name: 'description',
        content: 'Your App Description'
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

```vue [Nuxt 3]
<template>
  <div>
    <Head>
      <Title>ROAST - Home</Title>
      <Meta name="description" content="My app description"/>
    </Head>

    <div>Your Page Layout...</div>
  </div>
</template>  
```

::code-group

Two things to point out if this is the route you wish to choose. First, make sure you use capital letters on your components names (i.e `T` in Title). Second, you can place these components anywhere in your template for your page. This may look different than normal HTML layouts, but it works the same way!

### Further Reading

To see all of the possibilities on what meta tags you can use in Nuxt 3, check out the [updated documentation on Meta Tags](https://v3.nuxtjs.org/docs/usage/meta-tags).
