# TypeScript

Nuxt 3 is fully typed and provides helpful shortcuts to ensure you have access to accurate type information when you are coding.

## Auto-generated types

When you run `nuxi dev` or `nuxi build`, a `nuxt.d.ts` file will be auto-generated at the root of your project with the types of any modules you are using, as well as the key types that Nuxt 3 requires. Your IDE should recognise these types automatically. It is your choice whether to commit it to version control, but you shouldn't need to do so.

Some of the references in the file are to files that are generated within your `buildDir` (`.nuxt`) and therefore for full typings, you will need to run `nuxi dev` to generate the directory.

## Setting up type alias support

Nuxt automatically generates a `.nuxt/tsconfig.json` file with the resolved aliases you are using in your Nuxt project, as well as with other sensible defaults. You can benefit from this by creating a `tsconfig.json` in the root of your project with the following content:

```json
{
  "extends": "./.nuxt/tsconfig.json"
}
```

As you need to, you can customize the contents of this file. However, note that if you need to customize your `paths`, this will completely override the auto-generated path aliases. Instead, it is suggested that you add any path aliases you need to the `alias` property within your `nuxt.config`, where they will get picked up and added to the autogenerated `tsconfig`.

## Typed API routes

When using API routes (or middleware), Nitro will generate typings for these routes as long as you are returning a value instead of using `res.end()` to send a response.

You can access these types when using `$fetch()` or `useFetch()`.

## Typing plugins

If you provide a global property on the nuxt app instance, you can declare the type of this property like so:

```ts
import { defineNuxtPlugin } from '#app'

export default defineNuxtPlugin(nuxt => {
  nuxt.provide('hello', msg => `Hello ${msg}!`);
})

declare module '#app' {
  interface NuxtApp {
    $hello (msg: string): string
  }
}
```
