# Modules

Nuxt provides a module system to extend the framework core. Nuxt modules are async functions that sequentially run when starting nuxt in development mode using `nuxi dev` or building a project for production with `nuxi build`.

## Exploring Nuxt Modules

While developing production-grade applications with Nuxt you might find that the framework's core functionality is not enough. Nuxt can be extended with configuration options and plugins, but maintaining these customizations across multiple projects is tedious, repetitive and time-consuming. On the other hand, supporting every project's needs out of the box would make Nuxt very complex and hard to use.

This is one of the reasons why Nuxt provides a module system that makes it possible to extend the core. Modules can register hooks for certain entry points like the builder initialization. Modules can also override templates, configure webpack loaders, add CSS libraries, and perform many other useful tasks.

Best of all, Nuxt modules can be incorporated into npm packages. This makes it possible to reuse across projects and to share with the community, helping create an ecosystem of high-quality add-ons.

## The `modules` Property

Once you have installed the modules you can then add them to your `nuxt.config.ts` file under the `modules` property. Modules developers usually provide additionally needed steps and details for usage.

```ts{}[nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: [
    // Using package name (recommanded usage)
    '@nuxtjs/example',

    // Load a local module
    './modules/example',

    // Add module with inline-options
    ['./modules/example', { token: '123' }]

    // Inline module definition
    async (inlineOptions, nuxt) => { }
  ]
})
```

::alert{type="warning" icon=⚠️}
Nuxt Modules are now build-time-only. The `buildModules` property used in Nuxt 2 is deprecated in favor of `modules`.
::

::ReadMore{link="https://modules.nuxtjs.org/?version=3.x" title="Nuxt 3 Compatible Modules"}
::
Nuxt modules make integrations super simple. You don't have to develop everything from scratch nor bear with maintaining an extra boilerplate when there is already a Nuxt module for it. Adding Nuxt modules is possible using [`nuxt.config`](/api/configuration/nuxt.config#modules).

You can find a list of [Nuxt 3 compatible modules here](https://modules.nuxtjs.org/?version=3.x).

Everyone has the opportunity to develop modules. Read more about developing modules in the [Module Author Guide](/guide/going-further/modules).

::ReadMore{link="/guide/going-further/modules" title="Module Author Guide"}
::
