# Auto Imports and TypeScript

## TypeScript

It will be much easier to migrate your application if you use Nuxt's TypeScript integration. This does not mean you need to write your application in TypeScript, just that Nuxt will provide automatic type hints for your editor.

You can read more about Nuxt's TypeScript support [in the docs](/docs/concepts/typescript).

::alert{type=📦}
Nuxt can type-check your app using [`vue-tsc`](https://github.com/johnsoncodehk/volar/tree/master/packages/vue-tsc).
::

### Migration

1. Create a `tsconfig.json` with the following content:

   ```json
   {
     "extends": "./.nuxt/tsconfig.json"
   }
   ```

1. Run `npx nuxi prepare` to generate `.nuxt/tsconfig.json`.
1. Install Volar following the instructions in the [docs](/docs/getting-started/introduction).

## Components and Composables

Nuxt 3 adopts a minimal friction approach, meaning wherever possible components and composables are auto-imported.

::alert{type=info}
In the rest of the migration documentation, you will notice that key Nuxt and Vue utilities do not have explicit imports. This is not a typo; Nuxt will automatically import them for you, and you should get full type hinting if you have followed [the instructions above](#typescript) to use Nuxt's TypeScript support.
::

[Read more about auto imports](/docs/concepts/auto-imports)

### Migration

1. If you have been using `@nuxt/components` in Nuxt 2, you can remove `components: true` in your `nuxt.config`. If you had a more complex setup, then note that the component options have changed somewhat. See the [components documentation](/docs/directory-structure/components) for more information.

::alert{type=info}
You can look at `.nuxt/types/components.d.ts` and `.nuxt/types/auto-imports.d.ts` to see how Nuxt has resolved your components and composable auto-imports.
::
