# Setup your Nuxt project

In this section, you will learn about:
- Creating a Nuxt project
- Using the Nuxt CLI for development
- The app.vue file

As you maybe noticed by our logo, Nuxt finds its heritage in the Pyrenees mountains. In this tutorial we will build a Mountains Explorer that lists some of the highest mountains on our planet, with detailed pages about them.

## Quick start

You can follow this tutorial online by using the Nuxt 3 starter online on [CodeSandbox] or [Stackblitz], or locally on your computer.

::alert{type=info icon=💡}
This Get Started tutorial begins with a default Nuxt project created with the Nuxt CLI. It only includes some CSS and images to get you started and keep the tutorial focused on Nuxt concepts.
::
If you follow the tutorial online, you can skip the Installation chapter and start directly.

## Prerequisites

### Fundamentals

If you are new to the Vue ecosystem, we recommend that you read the [Fundamentals](/concepts/introduction) first to get a quick introduction and follow the tutorial with confidence.

### Installation

#### Node.js

Nuxt requires Node to run your application in development and build it for production.

[Download Node](https://nodejs.org/en/) (latest LTS version)

::alert{type=info icon=💡}
If you already have Node.js installed, check with node --version that you are using at least v14.
::

#### Text editor

To code Nuxt applications, you can use any code editor, like Webstorm, VSCode or Sublime Text. Make sure that your editor supports at least the Vue syntax coloration, as we'll be working with `.vue` files in the next chapters.

We recommend using the Visual Studio Code editor with the Volar extension for Vue development.

- [Download VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- [Download Volar Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=johnsoncodehk.volar)

#### Starter project

In your terminal, enter

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npx nuxi init mountains-explorer -t clemcode/nuxt-3-get-started
```

```bash [yarn2]
yarn dlx nuxi init mountains-explorer -t clemcode/nuxt-3-get-started
```

::

This will clone the tutorial in a directory named *mountains-explorer*.

Open the created directory in your code editor and run

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npm install
```

```bash [yarn2]
yarn install
```

::

::alert{type=info icon=💡}
The assets/ and public/ directories contain images and styles for the tutorial. We will use them later.
::

## Package.json

The package.json file created at the root of your project references the dependencies pulled from NPM, which hosts and distributes Javascript packages. The only required dependency for starting a Nuxt project is, of course, nuxt3.

This package contains every feature of Nuxt:

- Nuxt core
- Vue 3
- Vue-router
- Development and build tools (Vite and Webpack)
- The command-line tool (CLI) called `nuxi`

`nuxi` interacts with Nuxt at every step of a project: from launching a development server, running tests, to building and deploying your application. If you look at the scripts entry of the `package.json` file you will notice that the dev and build commands are aliases to nuxi commands.
Let’s start the development server by running `npm run dev` or `yarn dev` in your terminal. After a short build step, navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) on your browser. You should see the homepage of our application.

## App.vue

The page displayed in the browser represents the content of the `app.vue` file at the root of the project. By default, Nuxt will treat this file as the entrypoint and serve its content at the `/` route of the application.
The app.vue file is a plain Vue Single File Component (SFC). Those files are the building blocks of a Nuxt project, containing the markup, logic and styles of pages, as well as smaller UI parts.
::alert{type=info icon=💡}
If you are familiar with Vue, you might wonder where is the `main.js` file that creates a Vue app. This part is done by Nuxt behind the scene.
::

Change the text inside the h1 tag of the file:

```html [app.vue]
<template>
 <main>
  <h1>Mountains explorer</h1>
  <figure>
      <blockquote>
          <p>The mountains are calling and I must go.</p>
      </blockquote>
      <figcaption>John Muir</figcaption>
  </figure>
 </main>
</template>
```

The page on your browser should now display the text you entered, without having to reload the page. The Nuxt development server uses Hot module replacement (HMR) out of the box to update the application’s markup, content and styles every time a file changes.

## Summary

In this section, we created a Nuxt project, discovered how Nuxt comes bundled with the nuxi CLI tool and edited our first page in the app.vue entrypoint. In the next section, we will learn how to use our own Vue components with Nuxt.
