# Use components with Nuxt

In this section, you will learn about:

- Nuxt components auto-import feature
- Adding logic to components with the script tag
- How Nuxt auto-imports Vue Composition API’s functions

# Components auto-imports

In the previous section, we displayed our homepage by filling the `<template>` block of `app.vue`. Unlike `app.vue`, most components are not pages of our application, but reusable pieces of user interface, like buttons or menus. In Nuxt, you can create these components in the `components/` directory for them to be available across your application without having to explicitly import them, contrary to Vue.js.

Use `nuxi` scaffolding tool to create a new component called `Card.vue`:

::code-group

```bash [npm]
npx nuxi add component Card
```

```bash [yarn2]
yarn dlx nuxi add component Card
```

::

Replace the content of the file:

```html
<template>
 <article>
  <h2>Card</h2>
 </article>
</template>
```

You can now use it directly in without explicitly importing it. Replace the paragraph tag with our tag component in `app.vue`:

```html
<template>
 <main>
  <h1>Mountains Explorer</h1>
  <Card />
  </main>
</template>
```

The component’s name on the template reflects the file name. This feature is part of multiple **automations** used by Nuxt to remove boilerplate code and speed up development.

# Components data and logic

Vue components are not only pieces of markup. Single file components can also contain their own data and logic in the `<script>` block. Modify the `Card.vue` component so that it can accept a `title` prop from its parent with a default value:

::code-group

```html [Composition API]
<template>
 <article>
  <h2>{{ title }}</h2>
  </article>
</template>

<script setup>
defineProps({
  title: {
    default: 'Hello Nuxt!'
  }
})
</script>
```

```html [Options API]
<template>
 <article>
  <h2>{{ title }}</h2>
  </article>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  props: {
    title: {
      default: 'Hello Nuxt!'
    }
  }
}
</script>
```

::

::alert{type="info" icon="💡"}
The Options API is still supported in Nuxt 3 and examples will contain the two styles when applicable.
::

Since its version 3, Nuxt leverages the Composition API to offer performant helpers and a more terse syntax. Just like the components **auto-imports**, you can use any Composition API functions without explicitly importing them. In `app.vue` , declare a reactive variable for our card title:

```html
<template>
 <main>
  <h1>Mountains explorer</h1>
    <Card :title="title.value" />
  </main>
</template>

<script setup>
const title = ref('Hello from the parent!')
</script>
```

# Summary

Components are the first building block of a Nuxt application. They encapsulate markup, data and logic. Nuxt provides **automations** for components and composables to make your work with components straightforward. Components created in the `components/` directory are auto-imported, as well as Vue 3 Composition API functions.
