# Native ES Modules

Nuxt Bridge and Nuxt 3 both use Native ES Modules (ESM) by default when importing modules on server-side. This is because rather than outputting a CommonJS (CJS) server with Nuxt Nitro, we output a server using ESM syntax.

## Background

### What is ESM?

Most of the time, when people talk about ESM vs CJS, they are just talking about a different syntax for writing [modules](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules).

```js
// CJS 'import' and 'export'
const a = require('./a')
module.exports.a = a

// ESM equivalent
import a from './a'
export { a }
```

There are some other key differences too; here's [a helpful explainer](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2018/03/es-modules-a-cartoon-deep-dive/).

### What is 'Native' ESM?

You may have been writing your app using ESM syntax for a long time. After all, it's natively supported by the browser, and in Nuxt 2 we simply compiled all the code you wrote to the appropriate format (CJS for server, ESM for browser).

When using modules you'd install into your package, things were a little different. A sample library might expose both CJS and ESM versions, and let us pick which one we wanted:

```json
{
  "name": "sample-library",
  "main": "dist/sample-library.cjs.js",
  "module": "dist/sample-library.esm.js"
}
```

So in Nuxt 2, the bundler (webpack) would simply pull in the CJS file ('main') for the server build, and use the ESM file ('module') for the client build.

However, in recent Node LTS releases, it is now possible to [use ESM syntax within Node](https://nodejs.org/api/esm.html). That means that Node itself can process JavaScript using ESM syntax, although it doesn't do it by default. The two most common ways to enable ESM syntax are:

- set `type: 'module'` within your `package.json`
- use the `.mjs` file extension

This is what we do for Nuxt Nitro; we output a `.output/server/index.mjs` file. That tells Node to treat this file as a native ES module.

### What are valid imports in a Node context?

When you `import` a module rather than `require` it, Node resolves it differently. For example, when you import `sample-library`, Node will look not for the `main` but for the `module` entry in that library's `package.json`.

This is also true of dynamic imports, like `const b = await import('sample-library')`.

Node supports the following kinds of imports (see [docs](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#determining-module-system)):

1. files ending in `.mjs` - these are expected to use ESM syntax
1. files ending in `.cjs` - these are expected to use CJS syntax
1. files ending in `.js` - these are expected to use CJS syntax unless their `package.json` has `type: 'module'`

### What kinds of problems can there be?

For a long time module authors have been producing ESM-syntax builds but using conventions like `.esm.js` or `.es.js`, which they have added to the `module` field in their `package.json`. This hasn't been a problem until now because they have only been used by bundlers like webpack, which don't especially care about the file extension.

However, if you try to import a package with an `.esm.js` file in a Node ESM context, it just won't work, and you'll get an error like:

```bash
(node:22145) Warning: To load an ES module, set "type": "module" in the package.json or use the .mjs extension.
/path/to/index.js:1

export default {}
^^^^^^

SyntaxError: Unexpected token 'export'
    at wrapSafe (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:1001:16)
    at Module._compile (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:1049:27)
    at Object.Module._extensions..js (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:1114:10)
    at Module.load (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:950:32)
    at Function.Module._load (internal/modules/cjs/loader.js:790:14)
    at ModuleWrap.<anonymous> (internal/modules/esm/translators.js:199:29)
    at ModuleJob.run (internal/modules/esm/module_job.js:169:25)
    at async Loader.import (internal/modules/esm/loader.js:177:24)
    at async Object.loadESM (internal/process/esm_loader.js:68:5)
```

You might also get this error if you have a named import from an ESM-syntax build that Node thinks is CJS:

```bash
file:///path/to/index.mjs:5
import { named } from 'sample-library'
         ^^^^^
SyntaxError: Named export 'named' not found. The requested module 'sample-library' is a CommonJS module, which may not support all module.exports as named exports.

CommonJS modules can always be imported via the default export, for example using:

import pkg from 'sample-library';
const { named } = pkg;

    at ModuleJob._instantiate (internal/modules/esm/module_job.js:120:21)
    at async ModuleJob.run (internal/modules/esm/module_job.js:165:5)
    at async Loader.import (internal/modules/esm/loader.js:177:24)
    at async Object.loadESM (internal/process/esm_loader.js:68:5)
```

## Troubleshooting ESM issues

If you encounter these errors, the issue is almost certainly with the upstream library. They need to [fix their library](#library-author-guide) to support being imported by Node.

### Transpiling libraries

In the mean-time, you can tell Nuxt not to try to import these libraries by adding them to `build.transpile`:

```js
import { defineNuxtConfig } from 'nuxt3'

export default defineNuxtConfig({
  build: {
    transpile: ['sample-library']
  }
})
```

You may find that you _also_ need to add other packages that are being imported by these libraries.

### Aliasing libraries

In some cases, you may also need to manually alias the library to the CJS version, for example:

```js
import { defineNuxtConfig } from 'nuxt3'

export default defineNuxtConfig({
  alias: {
    'sample-library': ['sample-library/dist/sample-library.cjs.js']
  },
  // You may also need to alias it for Nitro,
  // but this should be a last resort
  nitro: {
    alias: {
      'sample-library': ['sample-library/dist/sample-library.cjs.js']
    },
  }
})
```

## Library author guide

The good news is that it's relatively simple to fix issues of ESM compatibility. There are really three main options:

1. **You can opt to make your entire library ESM-only**.

   This would mean setting `type: 'module'` in your `package.json` and ensuring that your built library uses ESM syntax. However, you may face issues with your dependencies - and this approach means your library can _only_ be consumed in an ESM context.

1. **You can output your library using CJS syntax.**

   As long as your library only outputs CJS code, there will be no problem importing it in a native node context. (This needs to be true for the package you have in place in the `module` field of your `package.json`.)

1. **You can rename your ESM files to end with `.mjs`.**

   _This is the recommended and simplest approach._ You may have to sort out issues with your library's dependencies, and possibly with your build system, but in most cases this should fix the problem for you. It's also recommended to rename your CJS files to end with `.cjs`, for the greatest explicitness.

Here's a [great guide](https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c#how-can-i-move-my-commonjs-project-to-esm) that you may find helpful. It has answers to lots of questions.
