# Configuration

By default, Nuxt is configured to cover most use cases. The `nuxt.config.ts` file can override or extend this default configuration, and provide custom variables.

## Nuxt configuration

The `nuxt.config.ts` file is located at the root of a Nuxt project and can override or extend the application's behavior.

A minimal configuration file exports the `defineNuxtConfig` function containing an object with your configuration. The `defineNuxtConfig` helper is globally available without import.

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  // My Nuxt config
})
```

This file will often be mentioned in the documentation, for example to add custom scripts, register modules or change rendering modes.

::alert{type=info}
Every configuration option is described in the [Configuration Reference](/api/configuration/nuxt.config).
::

::alert{type=info}
You don't have to use Typescript to build an application with Nuxt. However, it is strongly recommended to use the `.ts` extension for the `nuxt.config` file. This way you can benefit from hints in your IDE to avoid typos and mistakes while editing your configuration.
::

### Environment variables and private tokens

The `runtimeConfig` API exposes values like environment variables to the rest of your application. By default, these keys are only available server-side. The keys within `runtimeConfig.public` are also available client-side.

Those values can be overriden **at build time or after** by a `.env` file at the root of your project.

::code-group

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  runtimeConfig: {
    // The private keys which are only available server-side
    apiSecret: '123',
    // Keys within public are also exposed client-side
    public: {
      apiBase: '/api'
    }
  }
})
```

```text [.env]
# This will override the value of apiSecret
NUXT_API_SECRET=api_secret_token
```

::

These variables are exposed to the rest of your application using the [`useRuntimeConfig`](/api/composables/use-runtime-config) composable.

```vue [pages/index.vue]
<script setup>
const runtimeConfig = useRuntimeConfig()
</script>
```

:ReadMore{link="/guide/going-further/runtime-config"}

## App configuration

The `app.config.ts` file, also located at the root of a Nuxt project, is used to expose public variables that can be determined at build time. Contrary to the `runtimeConfig` option, these can not be overriden using environment variables.

A minimal configuration file exports the `defineAppConfig` function containing an object with your configuration. The `defineAppConfig` helper is globally available without import.

```ts [app.config.ts]
defineAppConfig({
  title: 'Hello Nuxt'
  theme: {
    dark: true,
    colors: {
      primary: '#ff0000'
    }
  }
})
```

These variables are exposed to the rest of your application using the [`useAppConfig`](/api/composables/use-app-config) composable.

```vue [pages/index.vue]
<script setup>
const appConfig = useAppConfig()
</script>
```

:ReadMore{link="/guide/directory-structure/app.config"}

## `runtimeConfig` VS `app.config`

As stated above, `runtimeConfig` and `app.config` are both used to expose variables to the rest of your application. To determine wether you should use one or the other, here are some guidelines:

### Usage

- `app.config` : Public tokens that are determined on build time, website configuration such as theme variant, title and any public project config that is determined on build time.
- `runtime config`: Private tokens or tokens that need to be specified after build using environment variables.

### Pros and Cons

#### `runtimeConfig`

| Pros                   | Cons             |
|------------------------|------------------|
| ✅ Can be overriden with environement variables | ❌ Adds to page load
| ✅ Fully dynamic for a server-deployment that needs to change config after build | ❌ Only accepts JS primitive types
| ✅ Private tokens |

#### `app.config`

| Pros                   | Cons             |
|------------------------|------------------|
| ✅ More efficient | ❌ Cannot be overriden with environement variables
| ✅ Better typed | ❌ Cannot be changed after build
| ✅ Any JS variable type |
